# Small experiment
This project is merely a small experiment to see how a factory-like game could be implemented. Takes inspiration from the following games:
- Satisfactory
- Factorio
- Minecraft Tech Mods (GregTech, Mekanism, Thermal Series, Create)

# Systems
## Resources
A resource is a "thing" with a count and name:
- 10 iron ore
- 2 copper ingots

Examples of resources include raw products, processed products, intermediates, and other stuff.

## Machines
Machines are simple black boxes that take some input resources (items, fluids, etc), process them, and output some other resources.
Machines have recipes associated with them. For example:
- The `process raw iron` recipe takes `x raw iron` and processes it to `y iron ingots`

Some recipes should be locked behind specific types of machines. A smelter should only be able to smelt resources / crushed ores. It should not be able to do anything other than that.

Machines have hatches, which are the I/O ports.

## Belts
Belts transfer items from one hatch to another at a fixed rate per tick. 

## Power
Power is generated by `generators`, transferred / transported by `wires & poles`, and finally, consumed by `consumers`. Consumers have a `target load` amount that they try to take from generators on the same network (i.e graph of wire "edges" and vertices "poles"). Consumers can make use of multiple generators to satify their `target load`. Similarly, a single generator can distribute its load across multiple consumers.

There should be multiple tiers of wires. Hier tier wires can support higher loads.
Wires take per-tick damage if they go over their rated maximum load (TODO).
Since this will be a 3D game, wires will have a world-scale length. Resistance of the wire will scale proportionally with its length. 
Instead of using BFS we can use Dijkstra or A* for electrical path-finding, we can set the "weight" of every edge to its resistance. Of course, higher-tier wires will have lower resistance. 

### Voltage Tier Idea:
Machines can have different supported "power tiers". If you have a high-power network and connect it to a lower-power machine, it can cause the machine to blow up. You must use step up / step down converters / transformers that convert between the different power tiers. Evidently, you cannot connect a low-power network to a high power machine. It will simply not work. Basically, do it like how GregTech does it. 

- High power networks have lower losses due to resistance over distance. Can incentivize player to built long powerlines using higher power components
- Can do something about power distribution stations that step down power and do some other thing alongside that

# Ideas
## Multiblocks / Modular Components
### Building
To create machines, instead of crafting them in a table (like in Minecraft & GregTech) or placing it down immediately like in Satisfactory, you need to craft the individual components and place them in specific spots in the world.
For example, to create a "furnace" you could do the following:
- Create the interior of the kiln
- Build the heating mantle / components
- Build the door & latching mechanism & whatever
- Build the exterior

### Stat Modifications
This can be extended to other machines where each individual component (either structural, mechanical, electrical) serves a specific purpose and *does* affect how the machine functions. This should incentivize the player *and* give the player the ability to scale vertically by upgrading machines instead of adding more machines. Plus, each of these component archetypes could have a specific stat they are tied to, and upgrading one increases / decreases that stat, depending on which means "better". Example:
- efficiency. "how much power this machine consumes at idle / full power"
- speed.
- (specific to furnaces machines) max temperature. certain recipes could be locked behind a minimum temperature, and upgrading certain parts of the furnace might help it reach higher temperatures

### Auto-Building
A problem with this mechanic is that building machines by hand would become tedious. Maybe that could incentivize the player to build autocrafters *in world space* (using gantries / mechanical arms / other stuff) that builds the machines and stores them somewhere (warehouse / dedicated world space storage for machines). Of course, if we stick with such a system, then we cannot allow the player to simply store the machines in their inventory. If crafting is going to be in world-space then storage must also be in world space (I feel like there should be exceptions to this rule. Should apply to large / huge items; small items should still be craftable by hand)

### Repairability / Maintenance
Another bonus that we get from this sort of system is replaceable parts. If a certain component gets damaged / wears out, you can replace it. This adds a layer of "maintenance" that you have to uphold to keep your factory running smoothly. 
- Needs to be balanced so that it doesn't feel like a chore / annoying
- Should have repercussions if you neglect repairing your machines for too long
    - Could be a loss in efficiency or dysfunction

### Summary
- Build machines in world space
- Machines not stored in inventory. Must be moved / placed AOT
- Machines can be manufactured automatically and stored in world space
- Machines are less of a "black box"; you have a bit more insight into what happens inside of it; there are multiple components:
    - Components are replaceable and upgradeable
    - Components wear down. Neglect yields inefficiencies. Maintenance required

### Problem
- Placing a specific modular component does not reward the player in any-way. It is simply a "task" for them to do during the crafting process.
Like Michatai said:
> it just locks in the future placements of the other components

## Macro Level Puzzle
Again, instead of treating machines as self-contained black boxes, we can instead "peek" onto what is happening inside of them.
What if you bring the puzzle-solving skills of something like constrained-space Factorio or Opus Magnum with the factory building mechanics of something like Satisfactory / GregTech?

I am unsure on how such a mix would be, but the implementation I am currently thinking about will uphold these criteria at the very least:
1. Brings the factory "orgasmic feeling" to a macro scale where everything you do now is *within* a single machine
2. Puzzle related like Opus Magnum or any other of Zachtronic's puzzle games
3. For any given input puzzle, there must be multiple solutions / ways to solve it, with varying degrees of "heuristic values"
    - Could be cost, cycles, efficiency. This way "better" solutions can allow machines to run more efficiently, more quickly

A problem that comes from this idea is that ratio matching becomes a complete and utter pain (*if* puzzle solution heuristics affect that in any way). If a puzzle solution, say, improves efficiency of the machine by 10% (meaning that it now runs 10% faster), the ratio at which it consumes and outputs resources is now non-vanilla (well, this could be said to be the same for `Somersloop` and `Power Shard` upgrades in Satisfactory, but instead of locking the upgrade behind an item that you need to explore and find, it is locked behind a puzzle in which you need to efficiently solve).

Alternative fix for this would be to make efficient solns. affect only the power consumption. Better Solution -> Lower Power Consumption.

In its simplest form, this will be akin to having multiple "variables" that you can do "operations" on to give you a resulting "expression" of a specific form
- examples of what "operations" could be:
    - idk
- examples of what "variables" could be:
    - idk

## Soft Body Shape Changing
TODO

## Heat System
### Implementation
Can be implemented using a voxel grid that represents the heat at specific cells in the world.
Cells would actively dissipate heat to nearby cells as well (one could even implement air density by making hot cells only dissipate heat upwards).

- One could implement "fans". These would simply allow heat to be transferred *faster* in the direction that the fan is blowing.
- One could implement "heat pumps". These machines can "suck up" heat from one side, "transport it" (copper pipes / heat pipes) and "blow it out" somewhere else.

### Machines
During their operation, machines will generate heat.
They need to be cooled in order to run efficiently and not overheat. There could be different ways to do this:
- Install a `Passive Heatsink` modular component to the machine and let it cool the machine passively.
- Install a `Active Heatsink` modular component to the machine and let it cool the machine actively using a fan / heatpump mechanism.
    - This should require a bit more setup
- Install a `Active Water Cooling` modular component to the machine and let it cool the machine actively using a fan / radiator setup.
    - This should require a bit more setup
    - This should allow you to run multiple machine through the same water cooling loop to avoid duplicating setup, well, as long as the machines are close enough to each other

Some machines *require* to be heated for efficient operations (I am unsure of what these machines are but it seems like a decent assumption that these exist lol). This can allow the user to implement more efficient setups that try to minimize wasted heat.
For example, one can re-use the generated heat from machines and use it for some other machines that require it, perchance...

What *hopefully* makes solving problems consisting of this system a bit more different than the usual is that now you *dont need to* use specific "connectors" (belts / wires) to transfer units across space. you can use air as a medium itself.

## Item Properties
Each instantiated item could have some properties associated with it:
- Temperature
- Softness
- Magnetism
- Conductivity
- Dirtyness
- Perhaps even molecular composition percentages

Some machines will only be able to work if the items are in the correct ranges for the appropriate recipe. For example:
- to be able to craft `[placeholder] plates` out of `[placeholder] ingots`, the ingots need to *soft enough* to be able to be flattened / stamped / whatever the hell the process is to get iron plates. 
- to be able to craft `[placeholder] ingots` out of `[placeholder] dust`, the dust needs to be dry and mixed with the right shit to be able to smelt into the proper metallic alloy. it must also be relatively clean (i.e not dirty)

This is akin to making multiple permutations of each item: `clean iron ingot`, `dirty iron ingot`, `rusty iron ingot`, `hot iron ingot`, but without blowing up the registry with permutations.

The question is, if we consider `molecular composition percentages`, we have ambiguity:
- we could have a "mixed iron + carbon" item that represents iron mixed with carbon OR
- we could have a "mixed alloy" item with molecular composition of iron + carbon

With this system in mind, we could have containers *that change how the item properties change over time*. Example:
- Some silos that are *well insulated* keep the contained items' temperature inside the silo

## In-Depth Smelting: Builds Upon Item Properties
Something something melting point and carbon content percentage graph

## Archetypes / Tiers: Builds Upon Item Properties
Some belts and or containers can only contain items of a specific type and within appropriate item property ranges.

Rubber conveyor belts will only be able to transfer solid items that weight less than a specific amount

Cleat conveyor belts can transfer dusts or grainy materials (crushed / dust / small particulate) 

Conveyor belts will break / get stuck if you put the wrong type of material on them  

## Computing & Digitalization
At some point, you will advance in the tech tree enough to be able to afford computers and computer parts.
For the coolness effect these should be very big (i.e room sized at minimum) because they would be "primitive" computers

Something something system similar to AE2 where you can "digitalize" your storage. No auto-crafting though as that's already implemented by, well, the factory.
Maybe digital storage could be used in the same way that storage drones work in Factorio? (i.e only used to move items in / out of a shared place without needing to resort to belts)

When digitalizing resource, they *MUST* be consumed in order not to duplicate them.

## Thinking
In the Create Mod, machines are "shapeless". They do their functions on the items below them, in depots or belts. Ex: The `mechanical press`, converts `ingots` into `plates`, but it *also* has other use cases

Instead of having machines that follow "recipes" arbitrarily (`iron ingot` -> `iron plate` in a constructor, for example), what if we had machines that *did one thing and only one thing*. For example:
- a *presser* that just presses down whatever is underneath it. *depending* on what is underneath it, the recipe changes:
    - if you press a metal sheet, you get a *thinner* metal sheet
    - if you press a metal cube, it makes... um... something

## Another idea:
Instead of having a constructor that does: `rotor` + `bearings` + `coils` + `casing` + = `motor` using a recipe, what if you have to construct the motor piece by piece, one step at a time:

1. Insert coils in casing
2. Insert rotor bearings in casing
3. Insert rotor in casing
4. Put casing front plate
5. Screw casing front plate

At the end, this is equivalent to crafting the motor in one go, but instead it is spread out over multiple steps *and* you can ship the "intermediate motor" to other parts of the factory.
For example, if you have a sub-factory that specializes in making casings, it might be more convenient to ship the *intermediate rotor* (the motor in a "still being crafted" state) and complete the crafting recipe there *without* having to bring all the preliminary ingredients with you. The half-crafted motor itself contains those ingredients.

## Mining Depth Idea:
Instead of plopping down a miner on top of a resource deposit node and it continuously generates resources, you could make it *simulate* mining down through the soil and through different types of rocks / sediments / ores.
You can change the target depth of the miner and it will drill until it reaches that depth. You can also use some sort of surface scanning (like scanner in GregTech) to see where the ores are (though much less OP and a lot less accurate than that)
When mining, you will need to feed the drill with more shafts so that it keeps extending until the target depth.
When it reaches the target depth then it will start mining for real (whatever that fucking means lol) and require more power and give more throughput. During this time though the unwanted soil that had been mined beforehand must be discarded (=> this gives the option for the player to go and process it some more if they wanted to).

Example of what this type of mining could give you depending on depth:
- 0m - 200m : idk dirt and rock
- 200m - 300m: idk harder rock
- 300m - 350m: idk
- 450m - 400m: shit you're looking for
(I haven't looked into geology and I'm not really trying to make this **realistic** butttt something like Astroneer type rock hardness could be very very cool)

Qs:
- What if you had to continuously craft more "shafts" and feed it to the miner?
- What if the miner took more than just power? What about pressurized air? 
- Would the resource patches run out eventually? 

- *Extension if using Multiblocks / Modular Components*: The drill head could be a modular component that can be replaced after enough wear. There can be multiple tiers depending on their hardness and maximum depth they can sustain


## Satellites:
*(heavily and I mean HEAVILY inspired from the Advanced Rocketry minecraft mod)*

you um make rockets. ksp style. but like in first person. and you actually have to craft the rocket components yourself. you make satellites. launch satellites. they do surface scanning. tell you where good ore is. or maybe makes the map more discoverable.
oooo what if there are different types of scanners you can put on satellites??

## Signals:
## Low Frequency Stuff
- can be used to monitor / communicate with satellite, if implemented
- can be used for underground resource scanning (make that make sense wtv)

## High Frequency Stuff
If we ever implement HF signals (for processing / remote control / wireless communication), we should try to emulate simple wave propagation throughout the wire.
- signal quality would decrease / become noisier near machines that emit a lot of RF noise.
    - signal wires could have "shielding" that protects the signal integrity
- signal waves throughout the wire can get reflected / refracted depending on some "impedance-like" value of the wire. not trying to make it realistic but kinda realistic and kinda fun to play with
- can have radio waves that propagate throughout the world for wireless communication
    - with *Computing & Digitalization* this could allow for some sort of resource teleportation as you would be able to digitalize resources
        - it would be cool if, depending on radio signal integrity, the teleported item has chances to come out "malrepresented". something something molecular composition gets fucked during transfer. sounds cool....